All right.
So let's talk about the section called functions included.
Another way that you might often hear this call is actually called scope.
A lot of people just call it the scope of your document.
I kind of put this in simple English because the assumption is you may or may not be technical so calling
it go up might be meaningless to you when you list out your functions.
Now this is one of the more important sections of your specification sheet.
It doesn't need to happen in this order.
I put it in this order because it really does help us figure out what exactly is going into the application.
And then it's much easier to list out all the other stuff because this is kind of the discovery process.
Now when I talk about functions included what I mean does ever think of every single thing that your
project or your application or your website needs to do now.
I mean quite literally anything.
It doesn't just necessarily mean like my Web site outputs a PTF with this and with user information.
Now that is a function but it also is things like they need to be able to log in with Facebook.
It also is things like I need to be able to delete users or save all of my use information in one area
or things like I need to have payment integrations or I need to have certain levels of security.
Now those are all things that I would include in here because this is a document you're using to create
an estimate to get an accurate estimate and then it's going to function as you're working document to
figure out what exactly is included in your estimate and what's not.
So you want to include as much as you possibly can.
One of the harder parts about writing your functions included section is that sometimes you just you
can't think of every single thing.
One other thing things the hard things about the functions included are the scope section is that it's
very hard to think of every single thing that could possibly be needed in your application.
And there's a couple of things I can say to that one don't worry about it.
You're always going to miss one thing or two things.
What I suggest is that you write your first go at it and then you come back to it later and you try
to think on it and you really try to think if there's anything missing or any process that you didn't
actually list out on this.
And the second thing I like to say is that if you are having trouble listing off the scope section you
can either go to the pages section first and try that or go to the end of the section in this course
and watched my my lectures on wireframe.
Using balsamic.
Now if you're someone who can think about your project visually or prefers to organize your information
visually I strongly suggest that you go to the wire framing section and you do that because what happens
is you're going to sit there and draw it out and draw out what exactly your application does screen
by screen.
And when you visually see it a lot of times that can help you visually recognize what exactly are the
functions what would be nice to put over here.
Doesn't it make sense to be in the application.
It gives you a very good comprehensive view of what the user sees and essentially what are all the functions
that are going to be included.
So if you have trouble with that go to that section but otherwise if you think you have a good idea
what's in your application just follow along.
So when I'm writing out my scope section are the functions included.
I generally like to think in my head like I'm a user using it for the first time and then start listing
it out every single thing I can think of as that user goes through the application.
So that's the idea we're using is this lovely and I've described it somewhat very quickly previously
when we were writing the job posting I have a little bit of a head start but what I'll do is I'll start
with what the first user would do in this scenario.
So the first user blogs in Adela's the app goes to a splash page remember.
So I would say has a splash page allows users to log in with Facebook.
OK.
And then here it might be a great opportunity to mention that you don't need to log in with anything
else.
What are the difficulties of working with developers is that they are very very literal especially when
they're looking at a specification sheet they're going to assume that this is the law.
This is kind of the absolute code of FIDE everything for this application.
And if you don't list something out there just don't assume that it's not in it.
Now they make assumptions like that all the time and so it is important that you try to be as explicit
as possible and even sometimes when you say it doesn't have this it's very helpful to point out even
negatives because a lot of times they'll just make incorrect assumptions.
So I can even say no other logon type.
Now don't worry about your jargon or if you label everything perfectly correct.
It is up to the developer to make sure that they understand every single section before they begin the
project.
If they don't go over this with you then you have a bad developer.
So what happens after they log in.
If we remember previously that it goes to a page or it introduces.
So it goes to a page that introduces the questionnaire.
Now one thing that people forget a lot of times are entered or what are called intermediate screens
intermediate screens are things that you have in polished applications that make the user flow more
fluid as they go from section to section.
So what's an example.
When I upload an image what generally happens.
Usually you have like a loading icon or a screen that comes up that says something's uploading.
That's an intermediate screen an intermediate screen might be even something like a search box and there's
nothing.
It doesn't come up with anything.
What does it display.
It should display something saying hey we didn't find anything.
Here are some suggestions for making your search more effective.
These are all intermediate screens and these are things that are not immediately apparent to you.
So what I typically will like to do is if I'm writing a user flow like this I might actually go and
play around with some other applications and see what are all the separate screens that they have because
I think that could help me kind of remember oh would be nice to have a screen here that explains this.
A lot of people forget that explainer screens are popular in mobile applications.
It's very popular too when you first log in have arrows pointing to different sections that explain
what's happening on each section.
Those are things that are very helpful if you don't put those and the developer is not going to assume
that they're in there so make sure that you have an opinion about that either or either way in this
case I'm going to say yes so user Whoa see a screen that explains how the questionnaire works.
And I'm just going to let this be static screen static graphic a static graphic means that just means
that it's it's not dynamic it's not really clickable you can't do anything with it it's literally just
an image being displayed with Continue button ok user answers
user answers three screens of questions for a total of 25 questions 25 questions are pre-determined.
And the radio buttons range from one to 10.
OK so I'm trying to be as literal as possible.
I've read technical writing before try to emulate that.
Now don't worry if you don't get it perfect or you don't.
You say something that makes you sound like a layman that's fine these people are used to working with
people who are Lehmann's the majority of people are asking for them to build these projects or people
who do not have a technical background are not trained in writing product specifications so don't worry
about it.
The point is to just literally girded state as much as you can on the page just take everything in your
head and throw it down.
Make sure you don't miss anything.
So after they ask those questions I'm probably going to need to explain that the system does something
with those answers right.
So system saves information saves answers to the user user and gives them a rating for matching other
users.
You know you don't need to be that as that explicit You don't need to explain what's going on on the
back end.
That's kind of something that they would have to figure out regardless because later you could just
say system uses these questions to match them to other people and they can infer from that that's perfectly
fine.
But I would then say like we said before user sees a page with two list options list option number one
display order matches based off 25.
QUESTION Question air.
And then the last option never to two.
And then here was the where the person can change information about themselves.
Oh sorry.
We could say per day to you as well so we could say option to change profile photo and option to create.
Let's we could just make this up 50 word bio about them so.
OK.